Hi, my name is Joshua Arnold. I earned my PhD in Environmental 
Engineering at Vanderbilt University, and I recently completed a 
Post-doctoral appointment at the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology. For my Capstone project, I've developed a web application 
called AmeniDC.

AmeniDC allows prospective home buyers in the District of Columbia 
to quickly visualize relationships between
the sale price of a residential home 
and the number of amenities that are near to it. 
The app's homepage displays an interactive map of Washington which 
has been partitioned by zipcode. 
By clicking the buttons on the right, users can toggle through chloropeth
maps of typical sale price in a zipcode as well as the typical number 
of Grocery Stores, Restaurants, 
and Metro Stations within 1 km of a home in that zipcode.
Clicking on any particular zipcode displays a pop-up
window containing a more-detailed breakdown of the surrounding amenities
for any particular zipcode. 

Once the user has honed in on a particular area, he or she can 
enter a DC street address into the box below, which generates a 
bar graph depicting an estimated sale price for the location as well
as the count of amenities that lie within 1 km of that location.

This prediction was made possible  
by first querying DC's open data repository 
for all residential property sales from the last four years.

Although this data is rich with features such as tax assessments 
and value added by lot improvements, this information is 
typically not known to a 
prospective home buyer in the early stages of his or her search.

However, 
the working hypothesis going into this problem was that the number of
nearby amenities 
could be used as a predictor of property sale price given that the
commuting is relatively difficult in the District.

Thus, the distribution of nearby amenities was found  by using the Google 
Places API to query up to 650 amenities within one kilometer of each 
sale location.

After constructing K-neighbors and random forest regression models,
it was determined using either location coordinates or nearby amenity 
distributions as features resulted in approximately the same mean-squared
error.

If you'd like to learn more I encourage you to head over to asldkf;asl.com
for a more detailed breakdown of the analysis.

Thank you for your attention.




The accuracy of each model was improved by about 5 base points
by considering land area as an additional feature (a resonable proxy for 
floor area which was not available in the dataset).

